Hello and welcome back to the course and deep learning we're finally at the park on outturn cotters.
So we've gone through quite a lot of different models in this course we've already talked about artificial
neural networks convolutional neural networks and recurrent neural networks and that summerize to supervised
de-planing side of things.
And now we are in unsupervised branch of deep learning and we've already talked about self-organizing
maps Balsall machines and now we're proceeding to our own cores.
So congratulations that you got this far in the course and it's been a very exciting journey and now
we're proceeding to the final stage.
So let's get started.
What is an ardent coater.
Well this is what an artist called quarter looks like.
And right away by the colors you can tell the good news that we are back to that directed types of neural
networks.
And this is a directed type of neural network the blue lines don't have arrows on the ends but we'll
disagree that it is a directed type of network and everything is moving from left to right.
So how does a outer enclosure work and what's what's the whole purpose of an auto encoder.
Well just as the name suggests and adn coder encodes itself.
That's the purpose of what it's doing or the whole philosophy behind the ancora that it takes some sort
of inputs puts them through her hidden layer and then then gets outputs but it aims for the outputs
to be identical to the inputs.
That's what it's trying to do.
That's why that's what how are you going to be training or and quoters to set them up in such a way
that on the output you get values which are equivalent to your inputs and from that you can tell that
other coders are not a pure type of unsupervised learning algorithm.
They are actually a self supervised deploring algorithm because they are comparing it to something on
the end remember in bosomed machines we didn't even have outputs we didn't have to compare to any kind
of labels or anything.
And in self-organising that's the same thing.
We didn't have anything to compare to we were just looking for features we were just looking for things
whereas here we are looking for things we're looking for this hidden layer which is also called the
coding layer or the bottleneck.
We're looking for how to structure it but at the same time we are comparing to the outputs to certain
values which are the inputs.
So it is this kind of on the verge between surprise and as a prize but we'll stick to unsupervised for
our encoders.
And that's pretty much how it works.
So you have inputs they get encoded and then they get decoded and they're compared and through that
the training happens.
And as you'll see because of all the things we know in from the previous parts of this course it'll
be very easy for you to understand or of is there quite a simple model.
When you combine all of things are you know and are right away now we just talked about the process
how they compare the outputs the inputs and you can already imagine how information is propagated this
way and then you have gradient descend going the other way.
So you talk about all those things but just be prepared that this section is going to be or this part
of the Course is going to be pretty easy for you and you're going to most likely breeze through it especially
if you've been through the other parts of the course already.
And one more thing on on the slide is what our current code is used for.
Well there's a couple things that they can be used for.
They can be used for feature detection.
So once you've encoded your data these nodes will present certain features which are important in your
data and then you can just look at them and get those features out of them or basically use those features
in the future.
They can also be used to build powerful recommender systems as you'll see from the practical tutorials
in this course and they can be used for encoding basically as as they're designed they are designed
to encode data and you could take data with lots and lots of values encoded into a smaller representation
and then all you would have to carry around is this or Ann Coulter or this decoder part and your encoded
data.
So it would take up less space.
So that's that's another use case for our own Kotas.
All right so that was a quick breakdown of the architecture of Arterton coders.
And now let's have an example have a look at an example of how they actually work so we can understand
them better on an intuitive level.
So there's a simplified antoh encoder of just four input nodes and two nodes in the hidden lair as we
can see we've got four movies here and four movies are here.
And one of these movies Well these are just movies that a person has watched.
And we're going to be encoding the rating that that people have left for those movies so one means a
person like that movie and zero means a person didn't like that movie.
And so that's how it basically works.
And now let's have a look at how this information can be encoded through the hour and quarter.
And before we start I just wanted to say that this example actually comes from this blog probably dance
it's a it's a great blog.
It's by a person who's actually a programmer who isn't a deep learning scientist as I understand but
he really broke it down into good steps so we'll link to this at the end as additional reading.
Very great read here.
But for now I'll just walk through this example.
So here we go.
Let's have a look at these connections.
First of all we follow training the hour and quarter which is going to come up with certain connections
right away certain weights just to prove.
So this whole example is to prove that it is possible it is possible to take four values and encode
them into actually two values.
And you know carried that around and basically save space and extract those features and is just examples
just to show that this whole situation is possible so we're not going to worry about the training what
we're going to be don't worry about anything else we're just going to see how is this possible this
looks.
This sounds like magic right.
So let's see how this is possible.
First of all we're going to color our synopses in two different colors blue and black or light blue
and black where a light blue is basically a multiplication by one.
So your weight is plus one and black is a multiplication by minus 1 so your weight is minus one and
the other thing I wanted to mention here in out in code is you normally use that test the hyperbolic
tangent activation function here and here.
And we're not going to be doing that which is going to in this specific example we're going to just
worry about the weights and we're just going to forget about the activation function for now completely.
This will just help us understand everything on an intuitive level.
So there we go that's how we're going to structure this specific network of specific out and coater
we've already predefined the weights as such and this will help us understand that everything is possible
this is just a specific example.
So let's have a look at an input.
Let's say as an input we've got 1 000.
So the person just like moving number one and they disliked the rest of the movies.
So what will the hidden nodes look like in that case.
Well in that case he.
Will be this one will turn into one here and this one will turn into one here because Blue is multiplying
by one and these zeros they will always just add zero.
So basically they're not going to contribute to the hidden nodes.
And once you have that in.
Now let's calculate each one of the output nodes says go into a tedious process but it's worth it.
So there's our input going into these into the hit nose analyse what happens for the top node we multiply
by a plus one by plus 1 and we get 2 for this knowledge we get.
One times one equals one one times one is one because minus one.
You add them up you get zero here you get minus one plus one equals zero and you get minus one minus
one equals minus two.
So those are your outputs.
But those are actually preliminary outputs in a Aalto encoder.
We also have a soft max function on end and we have a tutorial on the soft max function in one of the
very early parts of the course.
It's a bonus tutorial so now is the time to probably go revisit that tutorial if you skipped it at this
stage.
Basically what self-mocking function does in this case is it takes the highest value.
So in this case are two and it turns that into one and everything else into zero.
So if you apply a soft Max you will get one where you see the highest value and then zeros where you
see everything else.
And as you can see this result is indeed identical to what we input into our network.
All right so that's a start.
Let's have a look at some other cases we're not going to be as detailed.
We're just going to look at the results so if you input 0 1 0 0 you will see that you get a 2 over here
is 0 2 minus 2 0.
And when you play this off Max you get 0 1 0 0 again identical.
If your inputs are one over here you don't want to hear if you inputs a 1 or over here you get a one
over here.
So as you can see as long as in our dataset we've got rows with just three zeros and one one we can
encode them into a small format where we just have two values so we just have to have these hidden nos
as you can see every state is presented by hidden nodes so you have to have 1 1 you have 1 minus 1 you
have 1 minus 1 1 and you have minus 1 minus 1.
Every state is represented by Hitler and then you just need these weights.
The knowledge about these weights to reconstruct your output is a very simplified example and it was
even quite now looking back it is even quite straightforward that if you have four states here for possible
states then you know you have to buy two combinations you are four in total but this gives a overview
of how our encoders work in it again in a very simplified way.
Now they of course are much more complex than that.
So here you can see a much more sophisticated example where you way more so you have one two three four
five six seven eight nine 10 11 inputs to hit a nose and 11 outputs and it still works totally fine.
And this is a reference for additional reading to that same blog that we already mentioned.
It's called neural networks are impressively good at compression by multi Scroop.
And we'll include in the additional resources of course so definitely check it out.
Very nice.
Nicely written very easy introduction into our encounters.
In fact it's I don't think it's even actually mentioned that it's an Kotas from the very start just
neural networks and then in the comments you can read that indeed this was they were talking about order
and courters so have a look at that.
And I look forward to see you next time.
Until then enjoy learning.